1.1.

1.2.

1.3.

1.4.

2.1.

SPECIAL CHICO CITY COUNCIL MEETING - July 28, 2020
Minutes

SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING — 3:00 p.m.

Call to Order — Mayor Schwab called the July 28, 2020 Special meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. in the
Council Chamber, 421 Main Street, Chico, CA.

Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag
Roll Call

Present: Huber, Morgan, Ory, Reynolds, Stone, Brown, Schwab
Absent: None

SPECIAL AGENDA - Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the public was provided an opportunity to
address the Council by email and/or Engaged Chico, on any item described in the agenda before or
during consideration of that item. (Government Code § 54954.3(a).) The City Council was prohibited
by law from considering any other business at this meeting.

MAYOR SCHWAB'S REQUEST TO CONSIDER COVID 19 EMERGENCY RESOLUTIONS AND
EXECUTIVE ORDERS

All prior actions related to the COVID 19 pandemic were discussed. The Council also considered
steps for moving forward.

Vice Mayor Brown asked the Council to consider taking up the matter of face mask enforcement.

A motion was made by Councilmember Huber to agendize a discussion of the face mask enforcement
for a future meeting.

Mayor Schwab asked Councilmember Huber that instead of having this discussion at a future
meeting, could Council just direct staff to bring options back to the Council regarding enforcement?

Councilmember Huber indicated that could be part of it.

The Council was addressed via email by Marybeth Wuerthner, Lucas Bell, Collette Bassett, Stanley
Michael, Dana McFarland, Lee Robert, Taylor Skinner, Rob Berry, Kelliann Seitz, Peggy Jarolin,
Buster Cheri, Kimberly Hagstrom, Shawn Bentley, Christine Williams, Paula Brackett, Ed Holohan,
Lisa Moore, Roger Brady, Christopher Fowler, Steve Simpson, Linda Calbreath, Margaret Hicks,
Jody Taylor, Tina Peters, Tarace Lea, Jules Brown, Jesica Montgomery, Betty Niepoth, Debora
Jones, Kiersten Norris, Joshua Smith, Stephen Muser, Nichole Nava, John Kask, Mike Harper, Karin
Willhoit, Gary Viertell, Julie Threet, Kimberly Burke, Rebecca Smith, Jacqueline Glover, and Susan
Smead.

The Council recessed at 4:03 p.m. for a five-minute break. The meeting was reconvened and all
members were present.

Councilmember Stone stated that the City Manager already has emergency authority granted by the
Council for these types of things. He stated that he appreciated Vice Mayor Brown bringing this
forward and agreed this is an important topic to be discussed. But to Mayor Schwab's question,
Councilmember Stone indicated that Council should empower staff with what the Council is looking
at and leave it up to them as to when it can be implemented

July 28, 2020 Special City Council Minutes Page/i

Vice Mayor Brown agreed and stated that what she would be asking is to operationalize enforcement.

Councilmember Stone stated that since he hadn’t heard a second on Councilmember Huber’s motion,
he would then make a different motion to have staff expeditiously address this, along with supporting
marketing or whatever the City can do to encourage people to wear their masks and to ensure that
the City is going to enforce this activity whether it is Code Enforcement or PD, or otherwise. Vice
Mayor Brown seconded the motion.

City Attorney Jared confirmed the motion was to direct staff to operationalize the enforcement of
wearing masks. Councilmember Stone said yes and if Council needed to take action on August 4th,
the Council could do that.

Vice Mayor Brown stated that while she was saying that she would like face coverings to become the
general guidance, she also stated that her requests also includes the other mandates that she had
mentioned to the Chief on businesses that are out of compliance and would want that to be included.
She asked Councilmember Stone if that would be something he would include in the motion.

Councilmember Stone stated that absolutely he would include it in the motion.

City Attorney Jared asked if Council was still expecting something to come back on the 4th or was
Council expecting staff to start enforcing this at their discretion as soon as possible?

Councilmember Stone stated both. He wanted staff at their discretion to begin to operationalize this
as soon as it is reasonably feasible as they already have the authority to do and whatever else might
be needed operationally to be brought back at the earliest possible time.... which he imagined would
be August 4th.

Mayor Schwab noted that the August 4" agenda needed to be posted tomorrow.
Councilmember Stone noted that the turnaround would be tough.

Vice Mayor Brown noted that August 18th would work as long as the City was moving towards public
engagement.

Mayor Schwab confirmed that the City would be moving forward with enforcement through Code
Enforcement and education and this it is a priority for Council.

The City Manager reaffirmed what he was hearing was that Council wanted staff to turn the pressure
up on those businesses or individuals who are blatantly affronting these rules, with it noted that the
majority of businesses are in compliance. He indicated that there were a few areas that would need
to be worked through with the Police Chief, City Attorney and Code Enforcement. Regarding the
enforcement of face coverings, staff would need to look at how best to implement and that would be
the discussion that would need to come back at a future meeting. Right now, with the legal ability
that the City Manager already had granted to him by Council action to enforce these issues, he
indicated staff will move forward with enforcement as long as there is a majority of Councilmembers
who agree with this approach.

Mayor Schwab reiterated that this would include more outreach to the community.

The City Manager confirmed that while there were already several campaigns on that front, staff
would ramp that up. The City Attorney also noted that if any changes needed to be made to the
emergency resolution, that would also be brought back at a future meeting.

Councilmember Stone called for the question.

The motion carried by the following vote:

AYES: Huber, Morgan, Ory, Reynolds, Stone, Brown, Schwab
NOES: None

July 28, 2020 Special City Council Minutes age/2

3. ADJOURNMENT - Adjourned at 4:58 p.m. to the Regular City Council meeting on Tuesday, August
4, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber at 421 Main St. Chico, CA.

Date Approved: /drp 9/15/20

Mbterle, Joe

Deborah R. Presson, MMC, City Clerk

July 28, 2020 Special City Council Minutes age|/3
