1.1.

1.2.

1.3.

1.4.

2.1.

SPECIAL CHICO CITY COUNCIL MEETING - September 22, 2020
Minutes

SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING — 6:00 p.m.

Call to Order — Mayor Schwab called the September 22, 2020 - Special Council meeting to order at
6:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber, 421 Main Street, Chico, CA.

Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION: This meeting was conducted in accordance with Executive Order N-29-
20 with citizens able to address the Council in person.

Public Participation During the Meeting - The Engaged Chico civic engagement program was
made available for citizen input on individual agenda items prior to the meeting and that program can
be accessed through the City's website.

During the meeting, public comment was accepted via email to publiccomments@chicoca.gov, prior
to the close of public comment on an item.

Roll Call

Present: Huber, Morgan, Ory, Reynolds, Stone, Brown, Schwab
Absent: None

SPECIAL AGENDA - Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the public was provided with an opportunity
to address the Council by email and/or Engaged Chico, on any item described in the agenda before
or during consideration of that item. (Government Code § 54954.3(a).) The City Council was
prohibited by law from considering any other business at this meeting.

HOMELESS SOLUTIONS PLAN

Homelessness in Chico, and across Butte County, has grown at an alarming rate impacting the health
and safety of all residents. To address this concern, City staff have articulated several solutions in
the Homeless Opportunities Plan (Plan) that may alleviate these impacts while creating other
opportunities for sheltering and linkages to services for homeless persons.

The Plan laid out an aggressive approach toward combatting street homelessness that will require
unprecedented leadership, teamwork, and accountability on the part of the City Council, City staff
and service providers.

A. Appropriate $600,000 from the General Fund to facilitate the completion of the new airport
BMX location which would preserve the existing BMX location, off Martin Luther King Jr.
Parkway, for an alternate future use.

B. Appropriate $100,000 from the General Fund for the required planning and environmental
review of the old BMX location, located off of Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway.

C. Appropriate $657,967 from the General Fund to provide a grant to True North to facilitate
their efforts to establish a Navigation Center.

D. Authorize City staff to work with True North to evaluate the feasibility to expand existing
shelter capacity at the Torres Shelter.

September 22, 2020 Special City Council Minutes 1

E. Appropriate $1 million from the General Fund, authorize and empower the City Manager to
take all other actions necessary to implement the strategies, goals, and recommendations
herein, and to enter into agreements to resolve homelessness in compliance with City codes
and policies, and all County and State Public Health orders resulting from COVID-19.

Prior to public input, staff and service providers provided an overview of the proposed plan.

Council recessed at 7:58 p.m. for a ten-minute break. The meeting was reconvened and all members
were present.

Addressing the Council via Engaged Chico were Juanita Sumner, Jeff Creed, Amy Wheeler, Andy
Willhoit, Will Brady, Roxanne Eldridge, Jules Brown, Lisa Russell, Jacky Smith, James Anderson,
Michelle Hale, Rachelle Linden, Peggy Jarolin, Shannel Fowler, Catherine Dasbach, Laura McKee,
Daniel Rodrigues, Margaret Hicks, Jamie Damon, Gina Bax, Debora Jones, Herbert West, Linda
Wolf, Tom Bond, Kathi Whitely, Susan Smead, Rebecca Senoqu, Rodney Winkle, Larry Coleman,
Matt Sutter, Kimberly Burke, Casey Croninger, Lanita Fedorchuk, Mark Geyer, Lee Robert, Robin
Keehn, Kim Nott, Nichole Nava, Kristy Brodi, Mike Broch, Mike Trolinder, Stefanie Barrett, Michelle
Cooper, Tiffany Ballard, Cassiopeia Baird, Kim Dietz, Rob Berry, Juan Sarinana, Julie Nilsson, Nancy
Parks, Sally Bianco, Angela McLaughlin, David Welch, and Jeff Creed.

Addressing the Council via publiccomments@chicoca.gov were Addison Winslow, Anita FitzGerald,
Jamie Perez, Bruce Grelle, Linda Wolf, Julie Brown, Jady Cantwell, Tim Hansen, Steve Simpson,
Grace Marvin, John Brown, Lupe Arim Law, Steven Breedlove, Scott Gibson, Ann Winters, and Tina
Ortega.

Addressing the Council in person were Lee Altier, Juanne Manass, Kim Dietz, Ed McLaughlin, Angela
Frazier, Doug Guillon, Nichole Nava, Michele Cooper, Jeff Creed, Rob Berry, Angela McLaughlin,
Patrick Newman, Jesica Giannola, and Jynaia Badie.

Council provided input into the proposed plan, with conceptual approval of the five proposed items
as amended, with Item 1 - regarding the BMX relocation subject to Item 2 and the ability to ensure
that the property can be used for that purpose, taking into account any ingress and egress constraints
or any additional issues. Council also wanted to confirm that the $1 Million in Item 5 contained a
guarantee for a sanctioned campground site.

Vice Mayor Brown asked for additional outreach, with a specific request to include Catalyst into the
planning process as well as indicating that a campground and parking is a priority.

A motion was made by Councilmember Huber and seconded by Councilmember Stone to
conceptually approve the five proposed items as amended, with Item 1, regarding the BMX relocation
subject to Item 2 and the ability to ensure that the property can be used for that purpose, taking into
account any ingress or egress constraints, along with any additional issues identified by staff. Council
wanted to confirm that the $1 Million in Item 5 contained a guarantee for a sanctioned campground
site.

September 22, 2020 Special City Council Minutes age/2

Vice Mayor Brown asked for a friendly amendment to include the other including shelter bed provider.

That amendment was accepted.

Councilmember Ory asked that the question be split as he could support Items 2,3, and 4.

Councilmember Stone indicated that he had concerns over the motion as well.

The original motion was not acted on and instead the City Manager indicated that he had
enough information and direction from the Council in order to bring the revised plan back in
two weeks.

2.2. CONSIDERATION OF APPROVAL OF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION/BUDGET
MODIFICATION NO. 2020-ASD-008 - tabled from the 9/15/20 meeting

The Deputy Director - Finance requested consideration and approval of a Supplemental
Appropriation/Budget Modification to the FY 2019-20 Budget. (Barbara Martin, Deputy Director-
Finance)

A motion was made by Councilmember Ory and seconded by Vice Mayor Brown to approve the
Supplemental Appropriation/Budget Modification to the FY 2019-2020 Budget.

The motion carried by the following vote:

AYES: Huber, Morgan, Ory, Reynolds, Stone, Brown, Schwab
NOES: None

3. ADJOURNMENT - Adjourned at 10:50 p.m. to the Regular City Council meeting on Tuesday,
October 6, 2020 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber at 421 Main St. Chico, CA.

Date Approved: /drp 11/17/20

heoraictl Jasin

Deborah R. Presson, MMC, City Clerk

September 22, 2020 Special City Council Minutes a9 3
