1.1.

1.2.

1.3.

1.4,

2.1.

ADJOURNED REGULAR CHICO CITY COUNCIL MEETING — March 9, 2021
Minutes

SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING — 6:00 p.m.

Call to Order — Mayor Coolidge called the March 9, 2021 - Special Council meeting to order at 6:00
p.m. in the Council Chamber, 421 Main Street, Chico, CA.

Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag
Roll Call

Present: Brown, Denlay, Huber (6:10 p.m. arrival), Tandon, Reynolds, Coolidge
Absent: Morgan

SPECIAL AGENDA - Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the public addressed the Council in Engaged
Chico and via Zoom, on items described in the agenda before or during consideration of that item.
(Government Code § 54954.3(a).) The City Council was prohibited by law from considering any other
business at this meeting.

BOARD & COMMISSION INTERVIEWS & DISCUSSION OF SUBCOMMITTEES

At its meeting of March 2, 2021, the Council set the interviews of the applicants interested in serving
on the Arts Commission, Bidwell Park & Playground Commission, and Planning Commission for this
special meeting. Applicants participated via Zoom, with attendance at this meeting not a requirement
for appointment consideration. Final confirmation for appointment to these three commissions will
be made by the Council at its meeting of March 16, 2021.

In addition, Council asked for an overview of ad hoc and subcommittees that have been created by
the City's advisory bodies and associated staff time dedicated to these ancillary
committees. Council discussed whether or not additional recruitments are needed for the
Architectural Review and Historic Preservation Board, Airport Commission, and Climate Action
Commission.

Nomination forms were provided to the Council for completion for the three commissions mentioned
above and are due to the City Clerk by Wednesday, March 10, 2021. Once received, the nomination
forms will be consolidated into a final report for Council's consideration at its meeting of March 16,
2021. A Council majority vote will be needed to confirm the individual nominations. Interviews for the
remaining board and commissions will be set once Council has determined if there are enough
applicants for consideration. (Report - Deborah R. Presson, City Clerk)

Addressing the Council regarding their interest in serving on the Arts Commission were Bonnie
Pipkin, Monica McDaniel, Louis Nava, Daniela Ferguson, and Erin Horst.

Addressing the Council regarding their interest in serving on the Bidwell Park & Playground
Commission were Joshua Pierce, Martin Nichols, Larry Willis, Paul Cooper, Anjanette Shadley, Ryan
Brown, Jeff Glatz, Jesse Alexander, Megan Thomas Petty, Nathan Methvin-Terry, Louis Nava, and
Phillip Baker.

Addressing the Council regarding their interest in serving on the Planning Commission were Lupita
Arim-Law, Martin Nichols, Austin Barron, Toni Scott, Marc Breckenridge, Paul Cooper, Lindsay
Poulin, Larry Wahl, Michael Guzzi, Steve Lafaurie, and Mike Nelson.

March 9, 2021 Special City Council Minutes Page|1

The Council recessed at 7:28 p.m. for a ten-minute break.

The meeting was reconvened and all members were present.

A motion was made by Mayor Coolidge and seconded by Vice Mayor Reynolds to direct staff to
amend AP&P 10-1 to include the requirement that "existing" and "proposed" subcommittees will
require Council approval in order to be created or to continue to meet.

The motion carried by the following vote:

AYES: Brown, Denlay, Huber, Tandon, Reynolds, Coolidge
NOES: None
ABSENT: Morgan

A motion was made by Mayor Coolidge and seconded by Vice Mayor Reynolds to direct staff to come
back and provide an overview of the duties of the ARHPB, Airport Commission and Climate Action
Commission; and continue on with an additional 30-day recruitment for each of these advisory
bodies.

The motion carried by the following vote:
AYES: Brown, Denlay, Huber, Tandon, Reynolds, Coolidge
NOES: None
ABSENT: Morgan
3. ADJOURNMENT - Adjourned at 8:07 p.m. to the Adjourned Regular City Council meeting on

Tuesday, March 16, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chamber at 421 Main St. Chico, CA. and held
via Zoom.

Date Approved: /drp 3/16/21

Deborah R. Presson, MMC, City Clerk

March 9, 2021 Special City Council Minutes Page|2
